---
title: "Managing AWS s3 buckets from CMD using CLI and Jupyter Notebook using boto3"
date: 2020-05-31
categories: [Python]
tags: [AWS]
header:
  image: "/images/stocks_fbprophet/header.gif"
excerpt: "--"
mathjax: "true"
---
## AWS, CLI, Boto3, and AWS S3:
*Objective of this post is to make acquintance with AWS s3 services and how to access it and manage it with CLI and Boto3 SDK for python.*


### Lets get these key terms explained for once and for all:

**What is AWS?**
Amazon Web Services is a subsidiary of Amazon that provides on-demand cloud computing platforms and APIs to individuals, companies, and governments, on a metered pay-as-you-go basis.

**What is AWS S3?**
Amazon S3 or Amazon Simple Storage Service is a service offered by Amazon Web Services that provides object storage through a web service interface. Amazon S3 uses the same scalable storage infrastructure that Amazon.com uses to run its global e-commerce network.

**What is AWS CLI?**
The AWS Command Line Interface (CLI) is a unified tool to manage your AWS services. With just one tool to download and configure, you can control multiple AWS services from the command line and automate them through scripts.

**What is Boto3?**
Boto is the Amazon Web Services (AWS) SDK for Python. It enables Python developers to create, configure, and manage AWS services, such as EC2 and S3. Boto provides an easy to use, object-oriented API, as well as low-level access to AWS services.

Boto3 is built on the top of a library called Botocore, which is shared by the AWS CLI. Botocore provides the low level clients, session and credentials and configuration data. Boto3 built on the top of Botocore by providing its own session, resources, and collections.


### Steps to making best use of CLI:
- Lets make 2 buckets
- Upload some files
- Copy file from one bucket to another
- Download some files from these buckets
- Sync them with a local folder
- Make a presign
- Delete these buckets


    > C:\Users\shrey>aws configure

    > AWS Access Key ID [****************TM36]: ****2O

    > AWS Secret Access Key [****************tmuq]: /*************1

    > Default region name [us-east-1]: us-east-1
    
    > Default output format [JSON]: JSON
